---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/articles/business-collaboration.jpg'
navigation: True
title: A New Philosophy for Microsoft Teams
date: 2019-06-04
tags: teams collaboration productivity
subclass: 'post tag-speeches'
logo: 'assets/images/ghost.png'
author: jlorich
categories: jlorich
---

I've had the opportunity to use products like Teams and Slack at organizations ranging from tens, to thousands, to tens of thousands of users and beyond.  As private channel support for Microsoft Teams begins to roll out publicly I wanted to take the time to provide some recommendations on organization and collaboration processes within Microsoft Teams, as there are a number of options for grouping and securing chats and files.  This article provides prescriptive guidance for how to effectively use Teams in any size organization organization.


### Concepts

Within Teams there are a number of different organizational concepts that are important to understand before we get into the most effective ways to use them together.

##### Tenant

Every Teams instance is tied to an Azure Active Directory (AAD) Tenant for an organization.  We have a strong recommendation of only having a single AAD Tenant for a company, no matter the size.  Within Microsoft we work effectively with a single Tenant containing hundreds of thousands of users and millions of guests.

##### Team

Inside a tenant, we organize groups of users into Teams. A Team inside of Microsoft Teams represents a security boundary, and members of a Team can have access to all public channels within a team.

Every Team that is created also receives an associated SharePoint instance and Office 365 Security Group, and every member of the Team will have access to files associated with Public Channels inside this SharePoint site.

##### Channel

Each Team is made up of numerous Channels.  Channels are places to hold long-running persistent chats.  A Channel also has an associated set of files within the Team SharePoint instances. By default a Channel is available to everyone within the Team, however private Channels can also be created that provide restricted chat and file access (though the users must still be a member of the Team).

##### Group Chat

Channels are not the only way to have multiple people collaborate.  A Group Chat is another stream of persistent chat shared between multiple participants, however unlike a Channel a Group Chat is not part of a Team and does not have an associated SharePoint site or Office 365 Security Group.  Group Chats do support files, however all files shared in a Group Chat are stored in a "Microsoft Teams Chat Files" folder inside the sharer's OneDrive for Business.  The Group Chat Files tab just aggregates links to all these in a single place.

##### Direct Message

A Direct Message is exactly as it sounds: a persistent chat steam between two people.  Direct message are not specific to a Channel or Team, and can be between any two people within the Azure Active Directory Tenant.  Direct Messages also support files in a similar manner to Group Chats.

---

### Philosophy

Microsoft Teams is all about enhancing collaboration.  As companies begin to embrace culture changes, such as implementing DevOps practices, it's critically important to adopt an overall strategy for communication and collaboration that matches what you strive for as a company.  We need to provide secure boundaries when appropriate, but we also want to encourage trust, openness, and a growth-mindset.  We can help grow this kind of culture by applying a set of boundaries within Microsoft Teams that matches this philosophy.

##### Think big

The concept of a Team within Microsoft Teams does not map 1 to 1 to a team of people working together day to day.  A Team can easily support hundreds of channels and thousands of users and should be thought of as a high level grouping within an organization. In my experience

##### Team Memeberhip

I strongly believe that membership in most Teams within a company should be *completely open*. If someone has an interest 